# quantum-TDA
Topological data analysis on a quantum computer
---
Using an $n \times n$ distance matrix on a point cloud (potentially normalized using PCA (*"principle component analysis"*) if the data is in high enough dimensional space) we map each pairwise distance $d_{i,j}$ to a unitary $2$-qubit controlled-U gate that encodes the distance as some *"entanglement strength"* between two qubits/qudits. The measure of enranglement strength could be von Neumann entropy between each pair of qubits, or we could compair the controlled-U gate to a CNOT gate or some other standard entangling gate via an operator norm for example. Many such entanglement strength measure can be devised and we use several here and compare the different measure for performance and accuracy. 

Once the mapping is achieved, we run a persistent homology algorithm via a modified $2$-paramemeter DB-scan (one parameter for entanglement strength, the second for energy level of qubits or local clusters of qubits with respect to the first paramemeter). The result, for each value of the paramemeters is a topological quantum code given by the simplical complex produced by persistent homology a la [Breukmann](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.01520) (see pg. 42 for example). Note that these codes can always be restricted to $2$-dimensional simplical complexes lying on a Riemann surface of some genus determined by the data at some fixed entanglement and energy scales. Also note, at eached fixed value of entanglement strength and energy level, there will be a corresponding unique surface code produced. 
